# The transcriptome effect of fluticasone propionate on pericyte neural reprogramming in ischemic stroke model through single-cell RNA sequencing analysis

## Authors
Ammi Paul, Sarah Dilmaghani, Dr. Yi Wu, William Johnston, Dr. Jing Wang 

## Abstract
During an ischemic stroke, a blood clot blocks blood flow, preventing the uptake of oxygen and glucose to the brain. Treatment for ischemic stroke relies on administration of therapeutics within a short timeframe, before long-lasting tissue damage and neuronal death occurs. Pericytes are brain cells that wrap around capillaries and allow their contraction. These cells have been shown to have the ability to transform into neural stem and progenitor cells under ischemic conditions in vivo, which can be mimicked in culture using oxygen and glucose deprivation. During ischemic stroke, neurons rapidly deplete their energy reserves and subsequently undergo cell death, whereas pericytes can survive by shifting their energy metabolism toward glycolysis under hypoxic conditions. To address limited neuronal regeneration/repair after ischemic stroke, drugs that promote this transformation (known as neural reprogramming) are being investigated. While compound C, a known AMP-dependent kinase (AMPK) inhibitor is shown to promote pericyte neural reprogramming to generate induced-neural stem cells (i-NSCs), it is not FDA approved. Since, previous high-throughput screening work has shown that fluticasone propionate (FP), an FDA-approved anti-inflammatory drug, is promising to enhance pericyte neural reprogramming to produce i-NSCs, single-cell RNA sequencing analysis in this study aimed to understand underlying cellular/molecular mechanisms involved in FP promoted pericyte neural reprogramming, compared to compound C effects. This analysis found that FP treatment results in more progenitors and neurons according to cell identity marker expression, further supported by upregulation of neuronal structure related genes. Together, these findings suggest that FP promotes an accelerated model of pericyte neural reprogramming.
